W-17738281-App-restart-schedules (#272)
mulesoft/docs-hosting: cloudhub-2/modules/ROOT/pages/ch2-understand-app-restart.adoc

> = Understanding App Automatic Restart 

Reviewer: Should this be "Automatic App Restart"?

Reviewer: I think we should avoid the "Understanding" and just call it Automatic App Restarts

> In some scenarios, the platform can restart your Mule application. 

Reviewer: This is the short description - can you reword it to summarize the topic?

The CloudHub 2.0 platform automatically restarts your Mule application when xyz..

> The CloudHub 2.0 infrastructure performs a graceful shutdown by draining connections before transitioning traffic to a new instance of your application replica and terminating the older instance. If your application configuration explicitly sets the `shutdownTimeout` attribute to a value greater than two minutes and thirty seconds, the total shutdown grace period is five minutes. Otherwise, the grace period is twice the configured `shutdownTimeout` value. By default, `shutdownTimeout` is five seconds. See xref:3.9@mule-runtime::global-settings-configuration-reference.adoc[].

Reviewer: Oh, so shutdownTimeout is what you want to mention on line 31 above?

Author: Yes! I added the ref to that line.

Reviewer: Oh, I just noticed this - that link is to Mule 3.9, which is being archived (and also isn't supported by CH2, I believe).

[source,javascript,linenums]
----
<mule ...>

>   <configuration shutdownTimeout="150000" /> <!-- This set shutdownTimeout to 2min30s.  Default is 5 seconds -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <configuration shutdownTimeout="150000" /> <!-- This sets shutdownTimeout to 2 minutes, 30 seconds. Default is 5 seconds. -->
```

</mule>
----

To ensure business resiliency, design your application to be idempotent and deploy across multiple replicas with xref:ch2-clustering.adoc[clustering] enabled with a layer of persistence (xref:object-store::index.adoc[Object Store v2]). 

> == Infrastructure Failure

Reviewer: Can you combine this with the next section? Seems to be some overlap.

> If compute infrastructure suffers a failure, the platform moves and restarts your application replicas to ensure availability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the compute infrastructure suffers a failure, the platform moves and restarts your application replicas to ensure availability.
```

Reviewer: The platform moves the app.... where?

== Infrastructure Maintenance

> Application replicas running on compute infrastructures that become impaired or end-of-life are moved and restarted onto a new infrastructure to ensure availability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CloudHub 2.0 moves application replicas running on a compute infrastructure that becomes impaired or end-of-life onto a new infrastructure to ensure availability.
```

Reviewer: Trying to make it more active.

> Application replicas running on compute infrastructures that become impaired or end-of-life are moved and restarted onto a new infrastructure to ensure availability.

Reviewer: This seems to fit in Infrastructure Failure.

== Security Patching

> Applications are patched and restarted every month to mitigate security vulnerabilities. See the https://www.salesforce.com/content/dam/web/en_us/www/documents/legal/Agreements/versioning-back-support-policy.pdf#critical[Critical Security Vulnerabilities] policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To mitigate security vulnerabilities, CloudHub 2.0 patches and restarts applications every month. See the https://www.salesforce.com/content/dam/web/en_us/www/documents/legal/Agreements/versioning-back-support-policy.pdf#critical[Critical Security Vulnerabilities] policy.
```

== Replica Crash

> If an application replica crashes for any reason, it is automatically restarted. If it continues to fail to start, the platform attempts to restart it by following an exponential backoff policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an application replica crashes for any reason, CloudHub 2.0 automatically restarts it. If it continues to fail to start, the platform attempts to restart it using an exponential backoff policy.
```

== Replica Rebalancing 

> CloudHub 2.0 infrastructure can perform replica rebalancing to optimize application and infrastructure efficiency. Replica rebalancing involves gracefully moving and restarting replicas. At most 30% of replicas for an application are rebalanced concurrently. This keeps the application configuration the same, including the runtime version and infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CloudHub 2.0 infrastructure can perform replica rebalancing to optimize application and infrastructure efficiency. Replica rebalancing involves gracefully moving and restarting replicas. At most, 30% of replicas for an application are rebalanced concurrently. This strategy keeps the application configuration the same, including the runtime version and infrastructure.
```
